how to organize teh presentation?
* use Vimwiki pages for the slides?
* Should I use another wiki or might I be able to open a new directory?


I should tackle all that i have been doing,
with emphasis on the data visualization tt5 project.

So, topics:
* Who am I?
  - A research associate at ICMC/USP.
  - Background:
    * Finished doc in first half of 2017 (IFSC-USP)
      - Computational, applied, statistical physics
      - Topological stability and textual differentiation in human interaction networks: statistical analysis, visualization and linked data
    * Worked with many non-academic partners:
      - for software development
      - for art (mainly music and technology, I have a bachelor in muщ comp)
      - Example partners:
        * ONU, SGPR, MinC, MEC...
        * labMacambira.sourceforge.net, CDTL, juntaDados.org, Nós Digitais...
      - Last achievements:
        * published at arXiv the articles about:
          - tokipona (a minimalist conland: analysis, synthesis, syntax highlighting, more?),
          - about Vim (a report after 10 years of usage, an overview that is sound and simple through the namespaces (of commands, functions, mappings, logs, configurations, etc).
        * published the music half-shape suite (6 movements, almost 20 minutes, all python, symmetries, group theory, synthesis with control at sample level, extreme fidelity to the mathematical models..)
        * published the Vim plugin realcolors (to tweak color schemes and access special cases: passive pink; red, blue, gray, brighter and darker, more and less contrast etc etc etc etc)
        * agreed in how to document Python-heavy projects with the Numpy and Scipy communities (Sphinx + PyPI + github.io or readthedocs.org + github)
        * Finished all chapters of the first section (of three) of a book about statistical machine learning
        * maintained routine since beggining of January:
          - slot = 2h dedication + 30m planning + 1h resting or whatever
          - routine = (4 * slot)/day
          - each slot of one day is dedicated to a different subject
        * published music package in pypi
      - Current goals:
        - send writings ﬅo peer-reviewed journals
        - better understand color perception
        - contribute to syntax highlighting using understandings about colors
        - make contributions to visualization of social networks (complex networks and written language) and of soundscapes (signal processing).
        - enhance analyses, e.g. by the achievement of meaningful statistics and the incorporation of ml techniques.

* TT5 research project overview
  - visit PDF from cristina and my tt5 project
* SNA
  - network layouts for visualization (ccnetviz)
  - versinus
  - multilevel strategies for network (specially bipartite networks)
  - text visualization       
    * text highlighting
    * kolm-sminov-related tables
    * PCA of simple statistics
  - LOSD
    * article, brief description
  - colors
    * books by goethe...
    * perception for design
    * realcolors plugin
  - visualizations derived from the thesis
    * erdos histogram and timelines
    * pca components
    * temporal and circular/directional statistics
    * distances between sets of textual measurements
*     






































E = k.ln (s/s_0)
se s' = 2*s
E' = kln2 + ln(s/s_0)

Ou seja, um passo geometrico de
frequencia implica em um passo aritmetico de altura.

E é altura ou volume, ou seja, Estímulo.
e.g.:


email para o Poco:

Hi Poco, thanks for the nice conversation.

I hope you have a pleasant stay.
If you need or want something, write me here or wapp:
16 98107 7222.
I try to check messages often,
but I almost always leave it
silent if not expecting a call.

It looks like Tsallis has a unification of power-laws
and exponentials that might help with the confluence of
Weber-Fechner and Steven's laws that I mentioned to you.

Here are some notes about our conversation
and some thoughts about sensors for urban soundscapes.

:::

You, about color schemes for syntax highlighting:
* Psychometric for color
* CS color blindness (acessibilidade)
  * matlab matplotlib cs p daltonismo
  * Perceptually uniform sequential colormaps
  * Just Noticeable difference***
  * Image and painting-inspired color schemes for syntax highlighting
    * image given by user, or presets
  * User-fine tuning and creation of cs
* crowd-sourced experiments 

Things you are interested in:
* eng reversa de imagens
* interp de redes neurais por visualização
  * Mandar trab de wavelets p int de red neurais
  * tb este video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ghEmQSxT6tw
* visualizacao dentro de data science:
  * Talvez você goste de conhecer: https://github.com/ttm/aavo/
* urban soundscapes
  * NYC soundscapes - event identification and localization through multiple microphones
  * mingle with VICG
  * social participation
  * Some thoughts about follows this list.

arduino nano ou raspberry, pendrive, mic condensador
(omni ou direcional, o q tiver melhor custo/benefício).

condensador precisa de alimentação 5V (chama phantom),
arduino ou raspberry não sei a alimentação mas acho que pode ser 5V.

Deixar nas casas em perdizes,
distribuir no condomínio onde moro, etc.
Tudo voluntário.
Distribuir na USP? ICMC?

TODO:
* adicionar colores claras para ambientes claros segundo a cristina.
  achar referência
  
* syntax sonification: speech or sing each word with charachteristics
  that follow their morphosyntactic class 
  
* tirar nome da cristina do artigo de toki pona 

* sessao toki pona



