:vim:Vim:

= tutorial =
:vim-tutorial:

Start by encouraging the apprentice,
then bag him to have courage,
and manage to follow these simple steps
with care to understand that this might
be considered a very basic most useful material.

Then direct him to open a pack/myplugs/opt
then to clone vimwiki, realcolors and the like.
Show how to use packadd with completion, sweet,
and to make mappings to reload vimrc
and plugins.
Show the directory structure that vim uses, and for what.
Advocate the .vim git repository, show the possibilities
for encryption of sensitive files.
Show some functions, mappings, autocommands, the like,
and some selected important features.

direct the user to the first article.

= wiki =
TODO:
* Make triplification routines for Vimwiki so that one might
  represent their knowledge base as RDF and write as a wiki:
  personal info, interests, annotations, discoveries, etc etc.
* encription of non-default files for publication
  of the wiki in github and as an html website

= :musilingua: e vim =
:musilingua:musilíngua:musilanguage:
musilingua recuperada pela escrita datilografada.
Acordes, etc sao evidência,
assim como aquele filme do aprendiz de escritor,
baseado em fatos reais, em que ele cita do ritmo
na escrita.

Fazer experimento de musilingua com 2 galhos cada 1:
batendo lento quer que vá p direita os outros,
voz grave p direita tb,
rápido ou agudo eh esqueda.
Variações.
Ritmo em 2 é printo para atacar,
em 3 eh circular, encolver,
brincar mais.

No Vim, a datilografia se amplia para controle
da interface, programação para ela e outros fins (e.g. científicos),
documentação, mensagens aos outros,
artigos e notas, etc.

=== nota sobre persistência no Vim ===
Tabs e janelas sao usadas pelos usuarios de diversas formas
e parece n concordar com os entendimentos dos devs (ao menos dos principais).
tablites e statuslines
linha de comando
numeros de linha
arquivos de referencia, vimrc, plugins proprios e dos outros.

