notas:
- os bots são oráculos, meio-termos entre algoritmos e embaralhamento.
- 
= lightyearstones =
* finish about computer science and physics this year and the next.
* start medicine school in 2010
* handle humanities in general as possible (philosophy and anthropology)

= milestones =
* arrumar PRV, soltar revisão
* fazer pacotes mínimos de PSO, ACO, etc, no modelo especificado na wikipédia.
* mandar mensagem para banca com anotações, páginas e códigos


== prv ==
* finish to write prv.txt
* make wiki ok
  * pandoc? middleman?
* revise code and mappings
* make documentation ok
* revise the other plugins |aa|, |tokipona|, |realcolors|
* release
* make |bot| plugin
* start ic additions

= not organized =
* connect terminal to prv python though pty option of jobs
* 
* sessao p publica aa plugin and review realcolors and toki pona and prv.
  - plugin aa:
    * implement the tagging mechanism (to define, use and obtain files
    * read all files and see if they are ok.
    * add about mappings, functions and commands to aa.txt
    * make vimball to distribute
    * upload to vim.org
    *                                                           
    * jpj

ok abracadabra man.
lets see...

* I am a garanton
  - Yes you are
  - So you are too.

So lets see how you go now...
write the tutorial on using realcolors,
  - make a colorscheme on the fly (start vim session, open any file, change usual colors,
    then change ft=vimwiki, change the colors of bullets. Then open a python or help file.
    Show the person how to save and load such colorschemes.)
      * on the first phase:
	      * vim .
	      * tabe
	      * make screen bigger with c-+
	      * write 'lets make a color scheme on the fly to suit my taste, mood and intentions'
	      * c-\ i initializes
	      * c-\ s shows the syntax group
	      * c-\ c shows hex rep of colors and enables the change of them
another for using aa,
another for using toki pona,
and another on using vim in the prv framework.

(send finished items to [[achievements]] \wa)
aco
à
Hoje:
dar conta da encriptagem
fazer o aa fumegar no vim corretamente
Urgente:
- Escrever p Cristina sobre a apresentcao, era para termos mandado
  hoje e ela disse q ficaria atribulada c o comeco das aulas
    * Citar o Google Summer of Code q divulgou as orgs mentoras há pouco
      - alunos de pós podem participar. Alunos de graduacao, mestrado e doutorado. Pode acumular com bolsas brasileiras.

- fazer vim package template, com os arquivos todos que tenho na
  arvore ~/.vim/, mas no caminho do pacote.
  Sei q after/ n eh recursivo. Testar em /pack/packgroup/start/pack/
  e opt/
  (mais algum? acho q n tem)

- integrate aa with Vim
- integrate music with Vim
- review notes in vimrc, in wiki (and clean it!), and in other docs.
- finish article
- review docs and scripts
- upload scripts to vim.org

Ter Fev 13 04:27:03 -02 2018
- send Vim and tokipona articles for publishing
  * make results section in Vim article
  * upload Vim article to arXiv
  * review tokipona article
  * upload tokipona article to arXiv
  * send Vim artice for publication
  * send tokipona article for publication
- send inequality and losd articles to arXiv, to force me to take some measures about these stuck documents.
- Check maths for flowers (phyllotaxis): https://www.datacamp.com/projects/62?utm_medium=fb%2Cig%2Can%2Cms-all&utm_source=fb_paid&utm_campaign=smartly_ppa&utm_id=5a85d82ac7e28c10880b34a5 Phyllotaxis: Draw flowers using mathematics
- organize repositores:
  * vimrc goes where?
  * realcolors goes where?
  * prv goes where?
  * vimwiki goes where?
  * (tokipona is in its own repo with python)
  * there are two repos at least:
    * ttm/vim     |    join them? (with vimrc and realcolors and article and more)
    * ttm/prv     |               (with bot, aa, vim python and rdf hacks)
    * put repo with ~/.vim/
- Make research defense presentation for ufabc
- Start classes?
- Resolver questao do Vim para ter a produtividade e confortos necessarios

Vim
- see last [[commits]] to understando what has been integrated into Vim.
- Ask list about current milestone in Vim? Bram is commiting daily, so is there a version?
- install with ruby to use notmutch for reading email:
  * https://github.com/felipec/notmuch-vim
* study [[encription]]:
  * make autocommands to autoencrypt .wiki files with blowfish2, c13, zip in some strange sequences and keys.
* Create a mapping that creates the necessary directories (with :!mkdir) and opens the new file (with :e <cfile><CR>) given any filepath under cursor.
* find a dictionary for offline Vim
* organize notations (e.g. from vimrc)
* install a thesaurus for synonymy check
* it work as a charm
* make surround commands. E.g. e and E+any char surrounds word or Word this the char.
* make a mapping to open all ttm files, vimrc, etc… in a new tab

* terminal job mode in vim also gave errors while merging git repositores with VimL scripts, although merge seemed perfectly ok and Vim kept working as before.

Realcolors:
- Load random colorscheme (from union of items from realcolors, builtin, third party)

[[prv]]:
- make a VimL mask to NLTK.
just wrap with a closure..
let nltk.lfun = tokenize.wordpunkttokenike
let tokens nltk.lrun("this sentence should be tokenized")
Think about extending the model for any module..
E.g. let linspace = pymodule("numpy", "linalg.linspace")
let marray = linspace(2,100,0.1)
