Visualization Analysis & Design, 2014

====
cap 10 - map color and other channels

10.1
color is best understood as luminance, hue, saturation.

distinguish categories or encode ordering (sequential, diverging).
(identities, equivalece)    (magnitude)

bivariate colormaps

= 10.2.1 color vision = 
bastonetes para quando há pouca luz:
visão em cinza e baixa resolução,
pouca ou nenhuma importância para a VD

3 tipos de cones para cores, cada um com
uma resposta em frequência diferente.

:ex: como usar os bastonetes para a VD?
Escultura?

sistema visual recebe estes sinais e obtém
3 novos sinais, agora em cores opostas:
vermelho ao verde (cromático),
azul ao amarelo (cromático),
preto ao branco (luminância).

o sinal/canal de luminância provê
alta resolução (e.g. bordas).
Os dois cromáticos são de resolução mais baixa.

Daltonismo mais comum: 8% da população masculina
diferencia pouco ou nada o verde e o vermelho,
mas preserva o canal azul-amarelo.
(deuteranopia, protanopia)
(+ variações, + tritanopia)

= 10.2.2 color spaces =
three dimensional for humans.
Infinite representation possibilities,
special basis for computer manipulation
(which ??)
or human vision
(which ??).

RGB, computationally convenient,
not how we see.
Not particularly useful as separate channels,
Munzner leaves it aside.

HSL: hue, saturation, lightness
hue: chromaticity
saturation: amount of white
lightness: amount of black

HSL disc: white center, hue around, lightness in a separate slider.
(Fig 10.2, color picker)

HSV, V is grayscale Value, lin to L

HSL is pseudoperceptual:
hue is isolated,
but lightness L != luminance (S also != luminance)
Fig 10.3
'true luminance', perceptually linear luminance L*

:ex: how to measure luminance?
It should be possible to calculate an approximation
using psychophysics (Weber-Fechner or Steven's laws)
or empirical curves.
use 'spectral sensitivity'?
Fig 10.4

Perceptually uniform/linear color spaces:
Lab (or L*a*b*): L* black-white luminance,
a*, b* are color/chromatic axes.
L* follows Steven's with alpha=0.5 with respect
to brightness.
:ex: how to calculate brightness?

Lab space is good for interpolation, differences,
and other calculations that should not be executed
in the perceptually non-linear spaces (e.g. RGB, HSL).

??? ~~~
Munzner: VD manipulates luminance, not true bightness

luminance: physical property of a material
brightness: perceptual quantity (e.g. loudness)
Lightness: the amount of black in a color
grayscale Value: linearly related to L
Saturation: the amout of white in a color
Hue: the chromatic channel/dimension of a color
R,G,B
??? ~~~

== 10.2.3 Luminance, Saturation and Hue ==
~ Munzner new definitions ~
luminance: black-white channel/dimension.
saturation and hue are the other two chromatic channels.
Such definitions are not used elsewhere.
Fig 10.5

luminance and saturation: magnitude channels
hue: identity channel

luminance: 2-4 bins, specially in nonuniform background.
low accuracy in noncontiguous regions.
Fine detail, crisp edges.
Text is not readable without luminance contrast,
10:1 recommended, 3:1 minimum.

saturation also ok for ordered data: ~3 bins.
also low accuracy when noncontiguous.
smaller size objects yield lower resolution of saturation: use 2 bins
saturation and hue are separable only with large resolution
saturation and hue does not provide detectable edges.

hue:
  by region size, same problem as saturation, same noncontiguous low resolution:
    small: use bright and saturated colors to make colors distinguishable
    large: low-saturation colors, i.e. pastels
  effective for categorical data and groupings, second only to position
  6-7 bins in small separated regions.
  no (strong) implicit perceptual ordering (VS luminance and saturation).
  Higher level orderind (not pure perception):
    trafic lights
    rainbow
    
== 10.2.4 Transparency ==
encode information using the
channel opaque - see-through.

interacts strongly with other channels,
should be used in coordination with them:
  not in conjunction with luminance and saturation
  may be used with hue with few steps
is used mostly to create layers, e.g. background and foreground
frequently redundant: encoding in transparency and another channel

= 10.3 colormaps (CMs) =
mapping between colors and data values
(visual enconding with color)
(aka. pseudocoloring, color ramp)
has pitfalls

CM:
- categorical (qualitative)
    segmented CMs
      aka. quantized, stepped, binned, discretized, discrete CM
    used for categorical and ordinal attributes
- ordered
    continuous or segmented CMs
    type:
      sequential
      diverging
    use luminance and saturation
    used for quantitative and ordinal attributes
- bivariate:
    encodes two attributes simultaneously
    pref. second attribute binary

should follow the expressiveness principle (sec 5.4.1):
  match colormap to data characteristics
    
== 10.3.1 categorical colomaps ==
(aka. qualitative colormaps)
encode categories (and groupings?)
normally segmented
next best for categorical data after position

typically uses all three channels for a single attribute
small uncontiguous regions: 6-12 bins (include blackground color and other colors)
black, white, gray and other usual colors are often already taken.
pref. nameable colors, e.g. fully saturated easily nameble (red-green, blue-yellow); orange, brown, pink, magenta, purple, cyan.

care with:
  luminance
    contrast, major issue:
      pref. same luminance (same salience):
        yellow and green less luminance in white then red and blue
      pref. diff luminance:
        for black-white img
  saturation
    size:
      small regions (e.g. line) -> use high saturation
      large regions -> use low saturation

∴ CM depend on mark/glyph type

create CM: http://www.colorbrewer2.org
Fig 10.7
Fig 10.8
Fig 10.9

== 10.3.2 ordered colormaps ==
for ordinal or quantitative attributes,

magnitude channel?

sequential
  min to max val
  only luminance -> garyscale ramp
  if using hue:
    one end saturated
    other end:
      if saturation: pale or white
      if luminance: dark or black
  to use saturation, hue is needed
diverging
  one hue at each endpoint
  neutral color at midpoint, e.g.:
    white, gray, black;
    yellow / high luminance

continuous
  how many hues? depend on level of structure to emphasize
  Fig 10.11

rainbow CM:
  easily nomeable subranges (advantage)
  default in many software
  three drawbacks:
    hue indicates order but is an identity channel without ordering
    not a perceptually linear progression
    fine detail in hue, not luminance (good for details, edges)

∴ monotonically increasing luminance CMs:
  order hues by luminance (high and low level structures)
  Fig 10.12(b)
  Fig 10.13
  
raibow CM ok sometimes, e.g. segmented: Fig 13(c)

seg CM (quant data) => (datatype quant -> ordered)
  less is more
    
== 10.3.3 bivariate CMs==
pref. univariate
bivariate: two attributes.
if one is binary:
  fix base set of hues and vary their saturation
  (categorical/diverging - binary)
if both categorical with d > 2: results are poor
if both are sequential/diverging, ok, used, difficult to understand sometimes

== 10.3.4 colorbling-safe colormap design ==
red-green: 8% male, 0.5% femail.
variants

avoid only hue encoding,
i.e. use also luminance or saturation.

add luminance to red and green.

color blindness simulator:
http://www.rehue.net
and others
