perception for design, third ed.

==========
cap 5

color blindness
∴ superfluous in modern life
extremely useful in data visualization
camouflage antithesis:
  Fig 4.1
  hunter-gatherers

ecology -> information display / VD
  color as attribute rather than primary characteristic
  pref. labeling categorization
  unpref. shape, detail, spatial layout

= Trichromacy Theory =
3 cones in retina active at normal light levels
rods, for low light levels, ignored in color perception
3 cones -> 3 dimensions in human color vision space (aka. color space)

liquid crystal: RGB
primary paint: R Yellow B
minimal three inks: Cyan Magenta Yellow

chicken: 12 color-sensitive cels

'cone sensitivity functions'
Fig 4.2
S/blue less sensitive:
reason (besides chromatic aberration, discussed in Chap 2)
not to show detailed info (such as text) in pure blue in a black background.

mix only three colors, aka. primaries, to get any 'particular patch',
∴ any color,
∴ only the response of the receptors matter, the spectrum may be any.

== color blindness ==
~10% male, 1% female have color vision deficiency.
protanopia, deuteranopia, 

2-dimensional color spaces in common color deficiencies

= Color Measurement =
the basis of colorimetry:
one may match any color with no more than three primary lights

colorimetry is essential for specifying and reproducing colors

C ≡ rR + gG + bB

≡ is perceptual match

Fig 4.4
Fig 4.5

'gamut': the set of colors in the 'color space'
(either produced or sensed by a system)
YBP smaller gamut then RGB

negative light (r, g, b values):
  allows one to say that any color might be matched by three distinct lights
  is equivalent to adding the light to the reference color. 

'non-physical primaries' ?

== change of primaries ==
RGB is not special, primaries are arbitrary for color mixture

fundamental is color space conversion,
change from one set of primaries to another

transformation on color spaces: Appendix A

'abstract primaries'
for color specification

'standard observer'

CIE system of color standards
serious color specification
measurements made prior to 1931. (revision?)
(using class filters derived from the standard observer)

tristimulus calues, abstract receptors XYZ of an abstract observer.
Y is luminance
XYZ are mathematically convenient transformations of measured sensitivities
Appendix B has details on how the system is derived

XYZ gamut is beyond physically realizable colors

Use CIEtri to convert between primary spaces

surface colors, pigments, illuminant

== chromaticity coordinates ==
lightness, or luminance, should be treated specially (see Chap 3)

chromaticity <--> tristimulus

chromaticity diagram (only CIE?):
  mix of two colors lie on the line
  triangles in the diagram
  spectrum locus? same as chromaticity coordinate?
  purple boundary
  white, illuminants: D65, A
  excitation purity (saturation)
  complementary wavelengths/colors

sRGB (vs RGB?)

Eq 4.7 to find the CIE tristimulus values

calibrate monitor's R, G, B outputs and apply gamma correction
(see Chap 3).
Monitor then is a linear color creation device with a particular set
of primaries
(self-calibrating monitors)

=== color differences and uniform color spaces ===
color distances match euclidean distance
(specification of tolerance, of color codes, pseudocolor sequences)

CIE XYZ, CIElab, CIEluv

Eq. 4.8, 4.9, 4.10

UCS diagram (for CIEluv)
blends of two colors still lie on the line in u', v' diagram
(luv is a projective transformation of XYZ)
(mix not in line for CIElab!!)

u*, v* scale u', v' by distance from black to white
JND in ∆E

Uniform color spaces provide only rough approximations

:rec: use more saturated colors for small areas;
use less saturated colors for large areas.

== opponent process theory (OPT) ==
late 19th century, E. Hering:
  six elementary colors
  three opponent axes/pairs/dichotomies/binary or dual relations:
    black-white (luminance), r1
    red-green, r2
    yellow-blue, r3
recent years:
  OPT supported and cornerstone of color theory/science
  physiological basis:
    luminance channel r1 uses all cones
    red-green r2 uses difference between L and M
    yellow-blue r3 uses difference between (L + M) and S
    (PS. L here is long wavelength, not luminance or lightness)
    
Fig 4.10
:ex: cones with varying saturation. Why so? Just a glitch?

:ex: difference between color theory and science

=== naming ===
OPT ∴ no reddish green or yellowish blue, no opponent mix, they blend into gray axis.

:ex: any more impossible colors?

:ex: what more might OPT predict, corroborate, suggest, etc?

=== cross-cultural naming ===
neural basis
∵
first named colors (1969, Berlin, Kay):
  2 - black and white         |  OPT
  3- red                      |  OPT
  4,5 - green and yellow      |  OPT
  6 - blue                    |  OPT
  7 - brown
  8,9,10,11 - pink, purple, orange, gray
  12,13,... - ???
  (Fig 4.11)

∴
"elementary colors are far more valuable
in coding data than others".


:ex: what might 12,13 be? list possibilities.
Cyan? More names for white? Dark vs black? White vs bright?

:ex: Berlin and Kay, 1969 have not been revised since?

:ex: consider RGB.
What elementary color is missing?
Is magenta and cyan rightfully less well recognized colors?
(PS. RG0 = yellow, 0GB = cyan/aqua/ice?, R0B = magenta/purple)


=== unique hues ===
unique hues change little when luminance changes (1981)
supports chromatic and luminance independence hypothesis

yellow accuracy within 2nm (1981, Hurvich)

two unique greens (1967, Richards):
  ~514nm, 2/3 population
  ~525nm, 1/3 population
  turquoise arguing: green or blue?
  
=== neurophysiology ===
"red-green and yellow-blue opponent cells exist"
(others do not)
opponency properties in monkey primary visual cortexes

=== categorical colors ===
evidence of canonical colors (as Plato's forms).
orange or lime green are not easy to remmember

color confusion by categories

1986, Post, Greene, 210 colors by 2-degree, black surround:
  8 colors + white ∴ few labels
  red -> orange, red + _blue -> red
  white and colored backgrounds -> different results
  Fig. 4.12

== Properties of Color Channels ==









