recommendation: major revision (do drop-down menu)

level of interest: 'An article whose findings are important to those with closely related research interests' (dos itens a escolher, é o penúltimo nível)

quality of written English:
'not suitable for publication unless extensively edited'
(dos itens para escolher, o mais severo)

declaration of competing interests:
'I declare that I have no competing interests'

reviewer confidential comments to editor:
'Writing problems in this article are severe, but the methods and results seem sound and relevant,
as explained in the "reviewer blind comments to author".'


reviewer blind comments to author:
============
  ~ Major problem ~
  
The wording of the article should be enhanced.
For example, the first term 'community findings'
is usually expressed by
'community detection'.
Moreover, 'community finding' would at least
be gramatically correct.

I will avoid more notes on writing because
it is pervasive on the whole text.
Please note that, given that the subject is not trivial,
wording and grammatical problems render the article
difficult to read and the concepts unclear.
Also, needless phrases and words add to the (untrue)
impression of inconsistency, which entails
an even more arduous reading.

My recommendation is that the authors strive to achieve
a better written document and that the editors reject
the article otherwise.


===========
  ~ General considerations ~

On the second paragraph of the introduction, 
it is relevant to mention also the 2013 Brazilian
protests as a more recent event highly linked to
social networking platforms.

Equation (1) seems to be properly applied,
but is not described correctly.
TR(alpha)^{a,b} is not the 'total number of relationships'
as written.
It is the weight of the relationship, calculated
as the weighted relations normalized by the total
number of publications of each participant in the relation.

In this context, where the equation is not clearly described,
One might also ask if the measure is only appropriate if
CR_i^{a,b} is the number co-authorships.

Preferably, the final normalized measure (with log and max-min)
should be presented as an equation.

-> relationship age, first paragraph:
'degree' is this context has the special meaning of
the number of edges connected to a vertex (see 'degree centrality').
I suggest the authors to just omit 'degree definition' in the sentence.

Again, eq 2 is not well described:
TR(alpha, rho)^ {a,b} is not the 'total number of links between
researchers a and b', but the weight of the link between a and b.

In eq 3, it is not clear what is the value of RY if authors
contributed through various years nor if partnerships of many years
have any influence over rho(RY).

Last paragraph of this subsection:
relationship degree -> relationship weight

-> content loss 
FM measure should be described formally, not only through
an example (which leaves unclear many aspects of the measure).

-> weighted resistance distance
Spectral graph theory deals with Laplacina-like matrices
of weighted graphs.
It is important to minimally consider, at least mention,
this theoretical framework,
even if a thorough consideration of the theory is left for
further work.

-> k-Medoids and results
If the article is very well written, the procedures might
be described in usual paragraphs.
I recommend the authors to use bullet (or numbered) lists as a way to assure
the reader that she knows what the steps are.

-> experiments and results analysis
See Erdös-Rényi model (ERM) of networks, and avoid using
the term 'Erdös model' if not referring to ERM because it belong
to the very basis of network science.
(in this case, it seems that the authors are using
'Erdös model' to what is yield by REN: the rational Erdös number,
proposed by Barr).
Suggestion: use the RENM (rational Erdös number model)
acronym.

-> Final remarks
Why k-Medoids was preffered against other well known community
detection algorithms? Or is their exploitation envisioned as
further work?

=======
    ~ Summary of the review ~

Negative:
- the article is inadequately written.
- The equations and measures are not well described.

Positive:
- The results and methods are sound.
- The results and methods are of interest.

Remarks:
- Degree centrality is a very basic measure
in network science. Use 'weight' to refer to
the intensity of a link.
- See also strength centrality to avoid
misusage of the term 'strength'.

I recommend the article for publication
if the authors make a deep revision of the
document considering the notes above. 



parei na pág 7: measurement models to define strength

