:wiki:Wiki:
= Contents =
  - [[#note types|note types]]
  - [[#baits|baits]]
  - [[#conteúdos principais|conteúdos principais]]
  - [[#My knowledge base|My knowledge base]]


= note types = 
:notes:note-types:
Use uppercase markers for main files.
Use lowercase markers for inside files.
* Calendário, Calendar, calendar
* Diary, diário
* Notes, blergh
* Todo
* Wiki, wiki
* ../../../aa/aux/aashouts.txt, AA shouts
* tags usadas :todo: :note: :mass: etc


= baits =
:baits:iscas:
* miles/lightyear stones
* jogos c primo
* parar de fumar
* estudos mitológicos
* Livros Mumford Tsallis
  - disponibilizar implementacoes: github, pypi, algorithmia
  - gravar videos
* Implementacoes algorithmia, github, pypi:
  - setorializacao de erdos
  - mass
* Artigos por enviar
* dataviz
* Wikipedia, revisar artigos, passar notas, fazer novos artigos (de dataviz principalmente)
* explorar IC, bots, PRV
  - enxame de almas
  - bots com melhores parametrizacoes da fala:
    * com o baseline
    * utilizando estruturas morfossintaticas (POS tagging).
    * com deeplearning (tensorflow Seq2Seq):
      - https://adeshpande3.github.io/How-I-Used-Deep-Learning-to-Train-a-Chatbot-to-Talk-Like-Me
    * conversa como aprendido em chat de bate papo mas com vocabulário próprio,
    * digressao apenas pega as ultimas mensagens e monta com o corpus proprio
  - formalizar paralelismo entre cultura da pessoa e treinamento.
  - comando para bot mostrar a sua rede de palavras adjacentes
* rever notas de ideias p artigos
  - retomar escrita e integracao com blog ttm
* Acompanhar Nexos
  - fazer bots com autoras
* Aproveitar torre na rede com URL pública
* retomar experimentos em estruturas sociais, percola mundo etc

= conteúdos principais =

ic complexidade
prv [[prv/|vim]] [[prv/python]] [[prv/rdf]]
[[massa/massa]]
[[audiovis/audiovis]]
[[on/process]] [[on/todo]] [[on/achievements]]



[[visRedes]]
[[revisaoArtigo]]
[[virus]]

Notes to organize:
you might not be able to define functions
starting with lower case letters, but you
can define dictionaries, and use FunRefs


[todo](todo)
[Vim tutorial](Vim tutorial)
[Notation](Notation)
[Concurso UFABC](Concurso UFABC)
[massa](massa)



[[432Hz]]


I like music, math and physics.
Computer science, complex networks,
text mining, linked data, data visualization, social participation,
ethnic cultures.

I like arts, humanities and exact sciences.
I like to write music, poetry, scientific articles, short stories, and
computer programs.

My favourite languages are:
Python, Javascript, Vimscript (VimL).

Hello. If you are reading this,
send me a message or think about me
with good [[vibes]].

These are my cwp (current working projects):
a) [[mass]]
b) [[prv]]
  a) [[colors]]
c) [[ml]]

Old notes in blergh.


EXPERIMENTAL STUFF FROM VIMWIKI DOCUMENTATION
  j
= My knowledge base =
    * Tasks -- things to be done _yesterday_!!!, a subset of todo
    * Project Gutenberg -- good books are power.
    * Scratchpad -- various temporary stuff.
