:mass:massa:MASS:MASSA:
just finished first half of final suite.

TODO:
* assert that linear and exp fades work properly
* clean and organize the half suite pieces
* enhance the standard pieces from mass.
* integrate the half suite to the article.
  - with the excercises
* read again the whole work.
* maybe enhance the discussion about reverberation.
* enhance the section on cyclic arcs though:
  - including patterns with greater cycles then the
  patterns inside (d=[1,2,3], f=[200,300] cycle of 6 notes)
  - enhance the exposition about change ringing to at least conform to wikipedia
* enhance the music package:
  * revise the scripts, making documentation properly
  * use doxigen or similar
  * make routines to generate music automatically

I need to release the [[Music]] package sourcecode.

for mass exercises:
product of sounds: if you sum the result, you get
the magnitude of the projection of one sound (vector)
into the other.
This is in the core of fourier, wavelet and most
transformations, but the coefficients are magnitudes
of the original signal/sound into a complete base
(sinusoids, wavelets, etc).
Explore this representing sounds against other sounds,
e.g. recompose the transformation of a mozart piece
against a Nobel prize speech or a Sex Pistols track.
Hear the result, keep track of what might be of use, 
try other sounds and other procedures (e.g. the lower part
of the spectrum is against Goldberg Variations while
higher components are given in terms of dog barks).
Note: to represent sound X in terms of Y, you might
want to use copies of Y with various lengths.
E.g. sum(X . Y) = coeff_0,
sum(X[:len(X)/2] . Y[::2]) = coeff_10
sum(X[len(X)/2:] . Y[::2]) = coeff_11
etc
Then recompose with:
Y . coeff_0 + H(Y[::2] . c10, Y[::2] . c11) etc


download audios for first exercise using:
http://music-scraper.readthedocs.io/en/latest/

== links do youtube ==
:youtube:links-musica:music-links:
* https://youtu.be/c0hdvq5d8bc?t=13m10s
