instr:
entre 1-3k palavras

experimentos realizados em estruturas de redes sociais e como isso pode relacionar-se com a construção da memória coletiva na contemporaneidadeo

enviar ao menos as imagens da vaca e os arquivos de dados como um .zip

tapete: texto curto de autor convidado

formato livre
  talvez screenshot do texto,
  talvez enviar só o .wiki/.txt
  idealmente: pdf no overleaf, mando p arXiv

vincular ao tema:
  a construção da memória
  pensar 'memória e narrativa', como valorizada pela ação griô
  acusar que na SGPR e nos movimentos sociais a VDFDM foi por vezes vinculada ao fundúncio político de 2013-agora
  que o trampo com a SGPR está encostado
  mas todos estes esforçós vigam diariamente nas atividades de milhares de avatares que se libertam da prisão de si
  histórico/contrib para a participação social / controle social, democracia participativa.
  pontos de cultura
  = do que iremos nos lembrar =
  de que maneira estas memórias vem sendo construídas e por quem?
  
  
= what? =

= how? =

= by whom? =

== outline ==
  motivation
    anthropological physics
      complex networks
      SNA
      text mining
      linked data
      results
        extreme stability in human social networks
        social participation ontologies and vocabularies
        benchmarks (email, information, directed and weighted networks)
        baselines (bigrams, adjacency bots)
  social, tecnoxamanic experiments
    continuous example: 3 cicles leading to doctorate, SGPR and ONU, GSoC, Researcher at ICMC and TT5:
      the cow of the end of the world
    ephemeral example:
      discrepant betweenness and degree centralities (error?)
  galleries / memorial
    avatars/nicks/pseudonyms/heteronyms/fake names
    images
    videos
    texts
    webpages
    gadgets
      bots:
        bot pdf from 2013
        legends:
          fb scrapper bot
          lalenia
          adjacency bots
    data
      twitter, fb, email, irc, participaBR, cidade democrática, AA

= title =
Memory and self-dismantling in social experiments: anthropological physics and technoxamanic heys (ebós)

== abstract ==
Both mythological and hacker histories have recognized roles for self-dismantling:
it protects the messenger, allows the detachment of the self from self image,
is an artistic technique, etc.
Brazil has a pronounced role in this context, for it yields religious freedom since
the colonization and beforehand, and holds a renowned and visceral hacker behavior:
the kludge culture (aka. 'cultura da gambiarra').
This article exposes this legacy by two means: the description of social experiments
made by many participants at once, memorials of images, videos, texts, music, webpages, groups,
avatars/nicks/pseudonyms, presentations, etc.
This text is itself an experiment, and will be fed back to the community for comments before publishing,
as usual with any \emph{anthropological physics} experiment.
The materials herein are no secret, and are usually not unpublished, although most of it have not been
bind to a DOI or an ISBN.
Further directions are given as seminal ideas because next steps will be given
by the community upon diverse interests and context stonework.

== keywords ==
anthropological physics, technoxamanism, memorial, complex networks, data mining

      
= What? Or motivation =
The main motivation of what is described here was and is to enable members/participants to take action in their networks by means of scientific knowledge.
Such networks are complex and social networks, topological structures that are embedded in, and embed, other complex systems.
The ethic issues that arise when experimenting with other humans were ameliorated with the rise of the \emph{anthropological physics}~\cite{anPhy,anPhy2,thesis}:
researchers or activists should keep the processes as open as possible (texts, software, data, processes, outcomes, people involved, etc) while studying and experimenting in their own networks; a trace inherited from ethnography and similar to the technique/strategy of writing diaries.

= How? Or social, technoxamanic experiments =
Many experiments were carried out by diverse human agents,
either directly or through a second/fake/pseudonym/avatar/nick profile,
i.e. people, for various reasons, made conscious efforts in order
to interact with their networks to achieve specific goals or inspect the outcome.
Two examples are very efficient in exposing the procedures and potentials:
one that is continuous within few months, one that is ephemeral and occurs in only a few hours or less.
In such a diversity-rich setting, these experimental procedures were called
\emph{technoxamanic} experiments (or 'yeys' for Brazilian Portuguese '{\bf ebós}').

== The Cow of the End of the World (continuous experiment) ==

== Betweenness VS strength (ephemeral experiment) ==

== Massive tagging (semi-ephemeral experiment) ==

== Video-conferences, Etherpads, websites, gadgets, and whatnot ==

      
= So what and how? Or the outcomes =

= By whom? Or galleries / memorial =
posts with many people marked.
limits on marking people, citing them in comments,
private messages.

= What shall we remember? Or memory and narrative =

= todo =
self-dismantling? : despersonificação
